{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2576
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red94\green176\blue32;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c43067\c72927\c16222;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12420\viewh16260\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Sprint 4 - Core\
\
- How is neuroplasticity relevant to learning?\
- Describe what Growth Mindset is and why it is important\
\
\

\f1\b Neuroplasticity - 
\f0\b0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Action and imagination are integrated and engage the same neural pathways. Practicing one influences the other. \
\
Practice and reflection both help to strengthen the neural pathways involved with a particular task.\
\
\'93Cells that fire together, wire together\'94\
\'93Practice makes permanent\'94\
\
Putting information in context, and prioritising activities that helps learners tap into pre-existing pathways is particularly effective as it is easier to achieve thicker, more hard-wired connections in the brain.\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Discuss how understanding the principles of neuroplasticity benefits people:\
\cf2 \
Neuroplasticity is the brain\'92s capacity to continue to adapt or change over time by creating new neurone and building new networks. Neural activities that are used often become strongly linked in the brain and those that aren\'92t are forgotten. \
\
Scientists previously believed that the brain stopped growing after adolescence but more recent research has showed that the brain is able to continue growing and changing throughout the human lifespan. This means that it is possible to change dysfunctional patterns of thinking and behaving and to develop new mindsets, new skills, and new abilities. \
\
With all of this in mind it is empowering when approaching a new topic that you would like to learn about, or to try and get better at something that you have previously considered difficult. By creating the right conditions for learning, your brain is able to grow and adapt to this stimulus. Even just understanding how the brain works in this way is motivating for anyone who wants to make a positive change in their life.\
\
\cf0 Discuss how you might engage with the principles of neuroplasticity for your own benefit:\
\cf2 \
Neural pathways are strengthened by repeatedly engaging the neurons required for a particular mental task. This could be in order to perform a physical action or to imagine performing the same action, the same neural pathways are engaged. \
\
Activities that help to promote the strengthening of your synaptic connectivity are:\
\
Reflection\
Intentional practice\
Meditation\
Mindfulness\cf0 \
\
What are some of the ways to increase your neuroplasticity.\
\cf2 \
Some of the ways that you are able to increase your neuroplasticity are:\
\
Reflection - Think about it in a critical but positive fashion.\
\
Do - Repeat the action. This can either be physically or by imagining it. Over time, physical repetition has a greater benefit so it is important to not only imagine the action.\
\
Practice - Practice the thing in a variety of different ways and settings if possible. A positive mental environment is key to better engage your brain.\
\
Play - Make it fun!\
\
Belief - If you can believe that you can increase your ability to learn, you are more likely to do so.\
\
Motivation - If you really want to achieve a goal, or grow in line with your values or life purpose, you are more likely to create a better focus environment for learning and retaining new information - because it is important to you.\cf0 \
\
Link to a resource that you found useful or engaging.\
\
\cf2 I found the 10 Fundamentals of neuroplasticity described in Debbie Hampton\'92s article interesting! I hadn\'92t previously considered that motivation helps to improve the brain\'92s ability to learn or that brain plasticity is a two-way street where negative changes are as easy to make as positive ones.\
\
If you would like to check it out, you can read more <>here</>\
\
https://reset.me/story/neuroplasticity-the-10-fundamentals-of-rewiring-your-brain/\cf0 \
\
\

\f1\b Growth Mindset - 
\f0\b0 \
\
Discuss what it is and why it is relevant:\
\cf2 \
Growth mindset is a theory centred around the belief that intelligence and learning are not fixed, but can be developed and improved. Someone with a growth mindset will have a positive attitude towards learning and their ability to progress and achieve. This person is also more likely to rise to challenges and to learn from mistakes rather than feeling stressed and defeated. \
\
With these things in mind, and if you are able to practice and show to yourself that you can improve, you are setting yourself up with a much higher chance of succeeding at your chosen goal. \
\
\cf0 In this exploration, did anything surprise you? Change for you?\
\cf2 \
I think in the past I have definitely exhibited fixed mindset behaviours and so I am encouraged to try to turn this around to get the most out of learning and take a growth mindset approach into other aspects of life.\cf0 \
\
How will you integrate growth mindset into your learning journey?\
\cf2 Since learning about the growth mindset I have changed how I talk about my abilities. I\'92ll often intentionally use the word \'93yet\'94 when talking about something I\'92m not currently skilled at. As though I\'92m not yet good at that thing but there\'92s no reason I couldn\'92t be if I chose to. \cf0 \
\cf2 \
I will try my best to practice framing challenges as opportunities for growth and improvement.\
\cf0 \
Link to a resource you found particularly useful or engaging.\
\cf2 \
I really enjoyed an animated video called \'91Developing a Growth Mindset\'92.\
\
You can check it out <>here</>\
\
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rUJkbWNnNy4&ab_channel=ClickView\cf0 \
\

\f1\b Blend with Learning Plan and strategies - 
\f0\b0 \
\
Reflect and discuss how these understandings may shape or influence your learning plan and strategy.\
\cf2 \
I have created a daily plan to practice previously covered content and intentionally target things I found difficult.\
\
I will try to form habits out of meditation, journalling, and goal setting and reflection. \
\
I will try to be mindful of my mental approach to challenges in order to frame these in a positive fashion, believing that I am capable of learning anything if I apply myself. \cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}