{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2576
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red252\green90\blue64;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c44604\c31621;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww8660\viewh12780\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Sprint 5 Core - \
\
Reflecting on Learning Plan Questions - \
\
What is your long term goal and/or career pathway? \
\
\cf2 After my previous career that didn\'92t feel like the best fit and one in which I couldn\'92t see myself succeeding in I\'92m hopeful that a career in coding/web development will suit me better in the long run. During EDA I hope to become an improved version of myself. \
\
In the long term I\'92d like to continue to improve and better myself. I\'92d like to work with skilled people on high quality projects for clients who are thinking about how to help people. \
\
At this time I don\'92t have any interest in running my own business, but who knows where the future will lead. I don\'92t have a specific destination in mind, but as an example, I like by the work that is done at Dovetail - a studio who\'92s work is based more in design. Roam also seems like a place I\'92d be interested in working. \cf0 \
\
What do you think your biggest strengths and limitations will be in Bootcamp?\
\
\cf2 After proceeding through Foundations, I think my biggest limitation will be my own head. Through intentional practice I\'92m trying my best to move away from fixed mindset behaviours, however in times of high stress it can be very difficult to do. Rather than close off I\'92ll need to try hard to stay positive, curious, kind and compassionate. \
\
I\'92m hoping to leverage the skills learned as a project manager to help me through Bootcamp. As one example I think that if I can establish a plan for my days and weeks that I know will get me through my workload it will go a long way to helping with my stress levels - I\'92ll also need to be sure to plan in time for exercise, eating well, reading, and enough sleep. \cf0 \
\
What do you think your biggest non-technical challenge at Bootcamp will be?\
\
\cf2 I don\'92t usually look forward to speaking in front of groups of people, especially when I\'92m not confident of the information I\'92m talking about, so I can see this being something I\'92ll find difficult. \
\
I am anxious about working in pairs as, being brand new to coding, I don\'92t have a lot of confidence in my technical abilities. I believe that we\'92ll work through problems as a team but I feel as though I\'92ll need to overcome initial embarrassment at my abilities. \
\
I am also concerned about my ability to stay on top of the workload, as it does sound like it could be quite significant, however I just need to take this week by week and day by day. \cf0 \
\
What non-technical skills would you like to see developed in yourself whilst at EDA?\
\
\cf2 I\'92d really like to develop growth mindset skills at EDA; in a sustainable fashion that I can continue once I leave. It\'92d be a massive win for me and I think would see me really develop positively as a person. \
\
I\'92d like to improve at both self-awareness and reflection. \
\
I\'92d also like to try to regain some confidence in my leadership skills and in working in teams and pairs. \
\
Most of all I\'92d like to gain more confidence to be myself in any given environment.\cf0 \
\
What are your expectations of yourself on Bootcamp?\
\
Seeking help in a timely fashion - \
\
\cf2 I\'92ll do my best not to get into a negative headspace regarding a problem. From my experience of Foundations working through the list of newly learned problem solving techniques will help me to stay positive. When I get down to asking peers or a facilitator for help I\'92ll try not to put it off. I understand that others might be busy or stressed and so I\'92ll try to remain aware of this and not expect immediate them to be able to provide their time and attention immediately. \cf0 \
\
A commitment to managing my workload - \
\
\cf2 I will create a calendar for Bootcamp that I will do my best to adhere to. If it isn\'92t working I\'92ll revise it. It will need to ensure that I\'92m spending a suitable amount of time on my work, but also plan in time for reflection, exercise, and other things outside of EDA that will help with my mental health during Bootcamp. \
\
I will do my best to maintain good mental health during Bootcamp in order to work positively with others. \cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}