{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2576
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13860\viewh16380\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Long term goal / career pathway -\
\
In the long term I am interested in developing my skills in full stack web development with more of a focus on front-end. \
I\'92d like to work in an innovative environment around creative people. \
\
\
Non-technical human skills -\
\
During the EDA bootcamp I\'92d like to see myself develop:\
\
Not being afraid to ask a question for worry that I\'92ll look bad in front of my peers.\
My confidence in general; that I can do new and hard things.\
I\'92d like to build my empathy skills.\
\
\
Commitment to how I will manage my workload -\
\
Manage myself to work with others:\
\
With myself; I will commit to wanting to succeed in this bootcamp. \
I will try to plan out my week\'92s workload so that I understand how much I need to do each day in order to manage my stress levels. \
I will try to manage my mental health in order to stay productive and positive.\
\
With my peers; I will always be available to help with any question or problem. Happy to be a sounding board even if I don\'92t know the answer. \
I will try to be a friendly and positive peer.\
\
With the facilitators; I will try myself to find the solution to a problem before asking a question, and I\'92ll try my best to ask a narrow question that gets to the point of the problem. The facilitators have their own workload to manage so I will be respectful of their time commitments.\
\
With industry representatives; I will show respect  and to those giving their time outside of work to come and speak with us (or whatever their involvement might be). \
\
When things are building up:\
\
I will try to remember to do helpful things:\
- reach out to someone to talk\
- drink water and take little breaks away from the screen\
- get as much sleep as possible\
- continue to exercise regularly\
\
\
Commitment as to how and where I will seek help in a timely way -\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 If I come across a problem, I will first try to find the answer myself; if I can\'92t I will reach out to my peers (on Slack or in person) or a facilitator.\
I will try my best to not spend too long getting bogged down on a problem. \
I will remember that others are working to their own schedule and may not be available to speak with me immediately. \
\
\
What do I expect from the facilitators - \
\
I would like the facilitators to be available for ad hoc chats when their schedule allows. \
I would appreciate if they tried their best not to get frustrated by ill informed questions (as long as its apparent I\'92ve tried to research the problem)\
\
\
Scheduling block-outs - \
\
- Twice a week at 6pm I\'92ll try to get to a gym class. \
\
\
\
\
}