{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2576
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red15\green57\blue175;\red15\green57\blue175;\red21\green93\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c6238\c31382\c74150;\cssrgb\c6238\c31382\c74150;\cssrgb\c8872\c47049\c100000;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18000\viewh15900\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
Three steps of Emotional Intelligence:\
\
1. Attention Training\
2. Self Knowledge and Mastery\
3. Creating Useful Mental Habits\
\
Core Tasks:\
\

\f1\b 1. Research EQ and IQ: Research these and record findings to later go in a blog post
\f0\b0 \
\
- What is Emotional Intelligence?\
\cf2 \
Emotional intelligence is the ability to mindfully notice, control, evaluate, and express one\'92s own emotions, as well as the emotions of others.\
\
It can be broken down into components such as:\
1. Emotional awareness, or the ability to identify and name one\'92s own emotions.\
2. \cf3 The ability to manage emotions. This includes both regulating your own emotions and helping others do the same. \cf2 \
3. The ability to perceive how others feel. \
4. Using emotion to drive action.\
5. Using emotions to facilitate social communication. \
\
With emotional intelligence we are able to first manage our own emotional state and then help others. \
\
Some experts believe that the ability to understand and express emotions can play a role as important as traditional assessments of intelligence as to how people fare in life. \
\
\cf0 - How is it different to IQ?\
\cf2 \
An intelligence quotient (IQ) is a score derived from one of several standardised tests designed to assess intelligence. These tests assess things like: visual processing, working memory, and logical reasoning. IQ relates directly to intellectual pursuits such as the ability to learn as well as understand and apply information. Those with a higher IQ can think in the abstract and make connections by making generalisations more straightforward.\
\
There is no validated test or scale for the emotional quotient (EQ) as there is for IQ. EQ being the ability of a person to identify, assess, and control their emotions, the emotions of others, and of groups. A person with a high EQ can use their emotions to facilitate thinking, understand emotional meanings and accurately perceive others\'92 emotions. \
\
\
\cf0 - Why is it important?\
\cf2 \
There are benefits to a robust emotional mental state that go beyond mental wellbeing. A higher EQ has been linked to improved health, stronger relationships, and higher performance in the workplace.\
\
It is also important to note that EQ is a skill that can be improved with intentional practice and reflection which means that any of us can continue to improve how we interact both with ourselves and with other humans. We can take advantage of the neuroplasticity of the brain to practice and make habits out of activities that will improve our emotional intelligence. \
\

\f1\b \cf0 2. Practice focusing your attention and commit it to habit
\f0\b0 \
\
- Sign up to Calm app.\
- Choose a time in the morning you can repeat each day. This is setting your intention to participate in growth on this learning journey with EDA.\
- Complete the reflections under Mindfulness in the reflections sprint 3 file.\
\
\

\f1\b 3. Listening and Looping
\f0\b0 \
\
- Partner with someone in the cohort. Spend 2 minutes each, listening and looping (repeating what you heard them say).\
- Reflect on this process under Listening and Looping.\
\
Talking prompt: Talk about a time in the last Sprint when you felt triggered. Something difficult came up and challenged you. \
\
\cf4 Trying to fix the layout of my blog header}